.Dd July 19, 2026
.Dt AFP_CLIENT 1
.Os Netatalk Client
.Sh NAME
.Nm afp_client
.Nd Mount, unmount and control AFP sessions using the FUSE infrastructure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm discover Ns | Ns Cm mount Ns | Ns Cm status Ns | Ns Cm unmount Ns | Ns Cm suspend Ns | Ns Cm resume Ns | Ns Cm exit
.Op Ar options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is the user-facing control utility for AFP (Apple Filing Protocol)
volumes mounted through the Netatalk Client FUSE infrastructure.
It discovers AFP servers, mounts AFP volumes, unmounts them, reports mount
status, suspends and resumes server connections, and shuts down the per-user
mount manager.
.Pp
Each mount request talks to a per-user manager daemon, which spawns a
per-mount
.Xr afpfsd 1
daemon that owns that FUSE mount.
Multiple volumes can be mounted simultaneously on all supported platforms.
.Pp
The
.Xr mount_afpfs 1
command is in fact a symlink to
.Nm .
It is functionally equivalent to
.Nm
.Cm mount ,
but takes a fully qualified
.Li afp://
URL instead of the server address accepted by
.Nm
.Cm mount .
.Pp
.Nm
is distinct from
.Xr afpcmd 1 .
It is used only for the FUSE client,
in conjunction with
.Xr afpfsd 1 .
afpcmd, on the other hand, is an interactive CLI client
that can also be used for batch file transfers.
Both of them use the Netatalk Client libraries.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm discover Oo Fl -verbose | Fl -json Oc Op Fl -timeout Ar milliseconds
Browse for AFP services advertised through Bonjour/DNS-SD or Avahi.
The default output shows each service instance, device model, resolved target,
and advertised port, and consolidates identical target/port advertisements
received on multiple interfaces.
The device model is the value of the
.Dq model
TXT item from a matching
.Sy _device-info._tcp
advertisement, or
.Dq -
when no matching item exists.
For readability, the target is displayed without its trailing DNS root dot.
.Pp
The
.Fl -verbose
option additionally shows the service type, correlated device type, domain,
interface, resolved addresses, and the DNS-SD TXT record encoded as
hexadecimal.
It also shows each
.Sy _device-info._tcp
advertisement as a separate entry, including advertisements that could not be
associated with an AFP service.
The
.Fl -json
option emits machine-readable JSON containing the provider name and resolved
service data, including the correlated
.Dq device_type
value.
These two output options cannot be combined.
.Pp
By default, discovery collects advertisements for 1500 milliseconds.
The
.Fl -timeout
option accepts a value from 0 through 60000 milliseconds.
.It Cm mount Oo Ar mount options Oc Ar server:volume Ar mountpoint
Using the authentication and server information provided with the mount
options, mount the remote filesystem on mountpoint.
For more information, see
the
.Sx MOUNT FLAGS
section later in this man page.
If you would prefer to use
the AFP URL syntax, see
.Xr mount_afpfs 1
for more information.
.It Cm mount Fl -service Ar name Oo Ar mount options Oc Op Fl -volume Ar volume Op Ar mountpoint
Resolve an advertised AFP service by its exact instance name and authenticate
using the resolved address and advertised port.
With
.Fl -volume ,
mount the named volume on
.Ar mountpoint .
Without
.Fl -volume ,
list the volumes available to the authenticated user and exit without starting
the mount daemon. The trailing
.Ar mountpoint
is accepted but may be omitted in this mode.
Advertisements for the same
instance, domain, target, and port on multiple interfaces are treated as one
logical service.
Conflicting domains or endpoints are reported as ambiguous.
Use
.Cm discover
to inspect available names.
This command is non-interactive and does not
provide a browse mode.
.It Cm unmount Ar mountpoint
Remove the AFP mount that is currently connected to
.Ar mountpoint .
.Pp
.Em NOTE :
When using macFUSE on macOS, it is recommended to use
.Xr umount 8
or the Finder to unmount AFP volumes.
.It Cm status
Show status summary of all connected servers.
.It Cm status Ar mountpoint
Show status information of the connected server for the specified mountpoint.
This will provide information on the connected server's IP address,
server descriptions (machine type, machine name, signature, login message)
and properties of the mounted volume.
It also provides statistics and other details useful for debugging.
.It Cm suspend Ar mountpoint
Suspends but does not unmount the connection to the server for the volume
mounted at
.Ar mountpoint .
This terminates the network connection but keeps the
mount active, useful for laptop suspend/resume scenarios.
.It Cm resume Ar mountpoint
Resumes the server connection for the volume mounted at
.Ar mountpoint .
Reconnects to the AFP server and restores the session.
.It Cm exit
Stop all mounts owned by the current user and shut down the manager
daemon.
It is recommended to run
.Cm unmount
on each mountpoint first.
.El
.Sh MOUNT FLAGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a , Fl -uam Ar uam
Set the authentication method to one of the below options.
Short form first, formal protocol name in parentheses.
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Em guest ("No User Authent")
.It
.Em clrtxt ("Cleartxt Passwrd")
.It
.Em randnum ("Randnum Exchange")
.It
.Em randnum2 ("2-Way Randnum Exchange")
.It
.Em dhx ("DHCAST128")
.It
.Em dhx2 ("DHX2")
.It
.Em srp ("SRP")
.El
.Pp
If you do not specify a UAM, the most secure one common to both the
server and client will be chosen.
.It Fl m , Fl -map Ar mapping
Set the method used to map local to server UID and GIDs.
Possible values are:
.Pp
.Em Common user directory
(or
.Em common )
- Use in environments where the UID
and GID of the client and server match perfectly, such as with NIS or LDAP.
.Pp
.Em Login ids
(or
.Em loginids )
- All files appear owned by the local user who
mounted the volume.
This is the safest option when client and server have
different user databases.
.It Fl O , Fl -options Ar options
Comma-separated list of mount options.
See
.Xr fuse 8
for more information.
.It Fl o , Fl -port Ar portnum
Use TCP
.Ar portnum
instead of the default, 548.
.It Fl p , Fl -pass Ar password
Password to authenticate with the AFP server. If not given, or if you specify a
.Sq -
as the password, you will be prompted for it. This is the more secure option.
.It Fl s , Fl -service Ar name
Resolve the exact DNS-SD instance
.Ar name
before mounting.
The advertised port is used unless
.Fl -port
is also supplied explicitly.
.It Fl -volume Ar volume
Select the volume to mount when
.Fl -service
is used.
If this option is omitted, authenticate and list the available volumes instead.
.It Fl P , Fl -volpass Ar password
Use this if the volume you're accessing uses a volume password (a very
weak form of protection as it is transferred as clear text).
If you specify a
.Sq -
as the volume password, you will be prompted for it.
.It Fl u , Fl -user Ar username
Authenticate with the AFP server as
.Ar username .
.It Fl v , Fl -afpversion Ar afp_version
Specify the AFP protocol version that will be used for a mount.
By default Netatalk Client will choose the highest AFP version shared between
the client and server.
Netatalk Client supports AFP 2.0 up to 3.4.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Discover AFP servers on the local network:
.Pp
.Dl afp_client discover
.Pp
Emit detailed machine-readable discovery results:
.Pp
.Dl afp_client discover --json --timeout 2000
.Pp
Mount an advertised service by its instance name without an interactive
picker:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir -p /mnt/shared
afp_client mount --service "Office File Server" --user user123 \
    --volume "File Sharing" /mnt/shared
.Ed
.Pp
List the volumes available to the authenticated user without mounting:
.Pp
.Dl afp_client mount --service "Office File Server" --user user123
.Pp
Mount the AFP volume
.Li sharedDocs
from
.Li fileserver.example.net
at
.Pa /mnt/shared
as user
.Li user123 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir -p /mnt/shared
afp_client mount --user user123 fileserver.example.net:sharedDocs /mnt/shared
.Ed
.Pp
Mount the same volume using the equivalent
.Xr mount_afpfs 1
AFP URL syntax:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mkdir -p /mnt/shared
mount_afpfs afp://user123@fileserver.example.net/sharedDocs/ /mnt/shared
.Ed
.Pp
Show status information for all AFP mounts owned by the current user:
.Pp
.Dl afp_client status
.Pp
Show detailed status information for a specific mount:
.Pp
.Dl afp_client status /mnt/shared
.Pp
Suspend and later resume the server connection for a mount:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
afp_client suspend /mnt/shared
afp_client resume /mnt/shared
.Ed
.Pp
Unmount the volume when it is no longer needed:
.Pp
.Dl afp_client unmount /mnt/shared
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
is part of the FUSE implementation of Netatalk Client.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr afpfsd 1 ,
.Xr mount_afpfs 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Alex deVries Aq Mt alexthepuffin@gmail.com
