.Dd June 12, 2026
.Dt AFPCMD 1
.Os Netatalk Client
.Sh NAME
.Nm afpcmd
.Nd Transfer files over the network using the Apple Filing Protocol (AFP)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl v Ar loglevel
.Op Fl M Ar mode
.Ar afp_url
.Nm
.Op Fl rV
.Op Fl v Ar loglevel
.Op Fl M Ar mode
.Ar afp_url
.Ar local_path
.Nm
.Op Fl rV
.Op Fl v Ar loglevel
.Op Fl M Ar mode
.Ar local_path
.Ar afp_url
.Nm
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command-line tool to help transfer files to and from a
server using AFP.
This server is typically either Netatalk running on a UNIX-like host,
or AppleShare Server running on Classic Mac OS or Mac OS X.
.Pp
This can be done as a non-root user.
It offers either an interactive
command-line (like a traditional FTP client) or for batch retrievals.
.Pp
Do not confuse this with the FUSE mounting tools (mount_afpfs, afpfsd,
afp_client), which offer the ability to mount an entire filesystem.
.Pp
Note that afpcmd depends on the
.Xr afpsld 1
AFP Stateless Client Daemon running in the background to manage the AFP connection
and commands. If not already running, afpcmd will attempt to start it.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Shows the help message.
.It Fl r , Fl -recursive
Recursively transfers directories in batch mode.
This invocation-level option is not accepted in interactive mode; use
.Fl r
after an interactive command name instead.
.It Fl V , Fl -verbose
Enables verbose mode for file transfers.
When enabled, displays detailed messages during upload and download operations,
including per-file transfer statistics.
By default, only a summary message is shown after each transfer completes.
.It Fl v , Fl -loglevel Ar level
Sets the log verbosity level.
Accepted values are
.Cm debug ,
.Cm info ,
.Cm notice ,
.Cm warning ,
and
.Cm error .
Default is
.Cm notice .
Logs are written to standard error and syslog.
.It Fl M , Fl -metadata Ar mode
Preserves FinderInfo, resource forks, generic extended attributes, modes,
and modification times during transfers.
The storage mode may be
.Cm netatalk ,
.Cm xattr ,
.Cm macos ,
or
.Cm none .
.Cm netatalk
uses
.Pa .AppleDouble/name
and
.Pa name::EA
files and is the default.
.Cm xattr
uses only local filesystem extended attributes.
.Cm macos
uses macOS-compatible
.Pa ._name
AppleDouble files for FinderInfo and resource forks.
.Cm none
transfers only the data fork.
.It Ar afp_url
Uses the standard AFP URL format.
.El
.Sh BATCH MODE
Batch file transfers allow uploading or downloading files or directories without entering the interactive shell.
.Pp
To download from a server:
.Dl Nm Op Fl rV Ar afp_url Ar local_path
.Pp
To upload to a server:
.Dl Nm Op Fl rV Ar local_path Ar afp_url
.Pp
If the
.Fl r
flag is provided, the transfer is recursive (for directories).
If the
.Fl V
flag is provided, detailed transfer information is displayed for each file.
Metadata preservation is enabled by default in both batch and interactive
transfers.
Symbolic links are rejected.
.Sh INTERACTIVE MODE
If a URL is provided on the command line,
.Nm
connects and enters the
volume and directory specified.
.Pp
Standard readline keystrokes are enabled.
Command line completion (using
tab) and history (using up and down arrows) is provided.
Local filename
completion is enabled.
.Ss Most common commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm ls
Show files in current directory
.It Cm cd
Change directories on the server
.It Cm get Oo Fl r Oc Ar filename
Retrieve a file.
With
.Fl r ,
recursively retrieve a directory.
.It Cm put Oo Fl r Oc Ar filename
Upload a file.
With
.Fl r ,
recursively upload a directory.
.It Cm exit
Detach from current volume
.It Cm quit
Quit the program but keep AFP connection alive
.It Cm disconnect
Quit the program and shut down AFP connection;
WARNING: this may disrupt other AFP clients on the same host
.El
.Ss Remote directory commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm pwd
Show current directory on server
.It Cm mkdir Ar directory
Create new directory
.It Cm rmdir Ar directory
Remove directory
.El
.Ss Remote file commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm mv Ar old_file Ar new_file
Rename
.Ar old_file
to
.Ar new_file .
.It Cm cp Oo Fl r Oc Ar source Ar destination
Copy a file from
.Ar source
to
.Ar destination .
With
.Fl r ,
recursively copy a directory.
.It Cm touch Ar filename
Create a blank file or update time stamp on existing file
.It Cm cat Ar filename
Show the contents of file
.It Cm chmod Oo Fl r Oc Ar mode Ar file
Change the mode of a file on the server.
With
.Fl r ,
recursively change the mode of a directory tree.
.It Cm rm Oo Fl r Oc Ar file
Remove a file from the server.
With
.Fl r ,
recursively remove a directory tree.
.El
.Ss Metadata commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm xattr list Ar path
List generic extended attributes.
.It Cm xattr get Ar path Ar name Op Ar output
Read an extended attribute, writing binary data to
.Ar output
when supplied or showing bounded hexadecimal output otherwise.
.It Cm xattr set Ar path Ar name Ar input
Set an extended attribute from a local binary file.
.It Cm xattr remove Ar path Ar name
Remove an extended attribute.
.It Cm finderinfo get Ar path Op Ar output
Read the 32-byte FinderInfo value.
.It Cm finderinfo set Ar path Ar input
Set FinderInfo from an exactly 32-byte local file.
.It Cm finderinfo remove Ar path
Clear FinderInfo.
.It Cm resourcefork get Ar path Op Ar output
Read a resource fork.
.It Cm resourcefork set Ar path Ar input
Set a resource fork from a local binary file.
.It Cm resourcefork remove Ar path
Remove a resource fork.
.El
.Ss Status commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm status
Show status of the connection and server
.It Cm df
Show the disk size and available space
.El
.Ss Local commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm lpwd
Show current local directory
.It Cm lcd Ar directory
Change local directory
.El
.Ss User management commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm passwd
Change the password of the current user (if the UAM supports it)
.El
.Ss Other commands
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm help
Show a help message listing all commands.
.El
.Sh AFP URLS
A typical usage of
.Nm
is:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
afp://username:password@servername/volume
.Ed
.Pp
The complete syntax of a URL is:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
afp://username;AUTH=uamname:password@server:port/volume/path
.Ed
.Pp
If the password is omitted, or if
.Sq -
(a minus) is provided as the password, the user is prompted for the password.
If the username is omitted, you will attempt to authenticate as guest.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr afpgetstatus 1
