.Dd February 13, 2026
.Dt AFPGETSTATUS 1
.Os Netatalk Client
.Sh NAME
.Nm afpgetstatus
.Nd Get status information from an AFP server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Oo Ar afp_url Ns | Ns Ar ipaddress Ns Op : Ns Ar port Oc
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl v Ar loglevel
.Nm
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command-line tool that parses and prints the status
information of an AFP (Apple Filing Protocol) server.
.Pp
It first queries the server using a DSI GetStatus request (which is the same
as the AFP FPGetSrvrInfo) to display server name, type, supported AFP
versions, UAMs, flags, and signature.
.Pp
If the server supports guest access (the
\(lqNo User Authent\(rq
UAM), it then authenticates as a guest and lists the shared volumes
visible to guest clients.
.Pp
The server address can be specified as a bare hostname, IP address, or a
full AFP URL.
The
.Pa afp://
scheme prefix is optional and will be added automatically if omitted.
.Pp
It handles IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
IPv6 address can be optionally enclosed in square brackets.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar afp_url
An AFP URL in the form of
.Pa afp://servername:port .
The
.Pa afp://
prefix is optional.
Any other AFP URL fields (username, volume name, etc) are ignored.
.It Ar ipaddress
The IP address or hostname of the server
.It Ar port
The TCP port to connect to (optional, default 548)
.It Fl i
Print the server's icon and icon mask.
.It Fl v Ar loglevel
Set the log verbosity level.
Valid values are
.Cm debug ,
.Cm info ,
.Cm notice ,
.Cm warning ,
and
.Cm error .
The default is
.Cm warning .
.It Fl h
Display usage information and exit.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Query an AFP server using an IPv6 address:
.Pp
.Dl $ afpgetstatus fe80::1a2b:3c4d:5e6f:7890%eth0
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr afpcmd 1
