.Dd January 20, 2026
.Dt AFPSLD 1
.Os Netatalk Client
.Sh NAME
.Nm afpsld
.Nd AFP stateless daemon for remote file operations
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl l | Fl -logmethod Ns = Ns Ar method
.Op Fl v | Fl -loglevel Ns = Ns Ar level
.Op Fl f | Fl -foreground
.Op Fl d | Fl -debug
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a daemon that handles remote AFP file operations via a stateless API.
It manages server connections and performs file I/O operations on behalf of client applications.
.Pp
.Nm
is typically not run directly by users.
Instead, it is started automatically by
.Xr afpcmd 1
and other applications that use the
.Em libafpsl
shared library when they need to perform AFP operations.
Once started, the daemon persists to handle requests from multiple client processes.
.Pp
The daemon listens on a Unix domain socket at
.Pa /tmp/afp_sl- Ns Aq Ar uid ,
where
.Aq Ar uid
is the user's numeric user ID.
.Pp
.Nm
supports the following operations through the stateless API:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Server connection management (CONNECT, ATTACH, DETACH)
.It
File operations (OPEN, READ, WRITE, CLOSE, STAT)
.It
Directory operations (READDIR, MKDIR, RMDIR)
.It
File manipulation (CREAT, UNLINK, RENAME, CHMOD, TRUNCATE)
.It
Volume information (STATFS)
.El
.Pp
Unlike
.Xr afpfsd 1 ,
.Nm
does not mount AFP volumes as local filesystems and has no dependency on FUSE.
It is designed for applications that need to perform individual file operations
without maintaining a long-lived connection or integrating with libafpclient's event loop.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl l , Fl -logmethod Ar method
Sets the method used for logging.
Values are
.Cm stdout
or
.Cm syslog
(default).
.It Fl v , Fl -loglevel Ar level
Sets the log verbosity level.
Values are
.Cm debug ,
.Cm info ,
.Cm notice
(default),
.Cm warning ,
and
.Cm error .
.It Fl f , Fl -foreground
Prevents the daemon from forking into the background.
.It Fl d , Fl -debug
Debug mode: runs in foreground, sets log level to
.Cm LOG_DEBUG ,
and sends logs to stdout.
Equivalent to
.Fl f Fl -logmethod Cm stdout Fl -loglevel Cm debug .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /tmp/afp_sl- Ns Aq Ar uid
Unix domain socket used for client-daemon communication.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr afpcmd 1 ,
.Xr afpfsd 1
